.TH lis 3 "25 Oct 2016" "Man Page" "Introduction to Library Functions"

.SH NAME

lis \- library of iterative solvers for linear systems

.SH SYNOPSIS

[see Lis User Guide for full description]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Lis (Library of Iterative Solvers for linear systems, pronounced [lis]) is 
a parallel software library for solving discretized linear equations and
eigenvalue problems that arise in the numerical solution of partial
differential equations using iterative methods.

.PP
Lis provides facilities for:
.PP 
* Automatic program configuration
.PP 
* NUMA aware hybrid implementation with MPI and OpenMP
.PP 
* Exchangeable dense and sparse matrix storage formats
.PP 
* Basic linear algebra operations for dense and sparse matrices
.PP 
* Parallel iterative methods for linear equations and eigenvalue problems
.PP 
* Parallel preconditioners for iterative methods
.PP 
* Quadruple precision floating point operations
.PP 
* Performance analysis
.PP 
* Command-line interface to solvers and benchmarks

.SH SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

The installation of Lis requires a C compiler. The Fortran interface
requires a Fortran compiler, and the algebraic multigrid
preconditioner requires a Fortran 90 compiler. For parallel computing
environments, an OpenMP or an MPI library is required. Both the
Harwell-Boeing and Matrix Market formats are supported to import and
export user data.

.SH REFERENCES

* Akira Nishida (2010). "Experience in Developing an Open Source
Scalable Software Infrastructure in Japan". Computational Science and
Its Applications - ICCSA 2010. Lecture Notes in Computer Science
6017. Springer. pp. 87-98. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-12165-4_36. ISBN
3-642-12164-0.
.PP
* Hisashi Kotakemori, Hidehiko Hasegawa, Tamito Kajiyama, Akira Nukada,
Reiji Suda, and Akira Nishida (2008). "Performance Evaluation of
Parallel Sparse Matrix-Vector Products on SGI Altix 3700". OpenMP
Shared Memory Parallel Programming. Lecture Notes in Computer Science
4315. Springer. pp. 153-163. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-68555-5_13. ISBN
3-540-68554-5.
.PP
* Hisashi Kotakemori, Hidehiko Hasegawa, and Akira Nishida
(2005). "Performance Evaluation of a Parallel Iterative Method Library
using OpenMP". Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on High
Performance Computing in Asia Pacific Region (HPC Asia 2005). Beijing:
IEEE. pp. 432-436. doi:10.1109/HPCASIA.2005.74. ISBN 0-7695-2486-9.
.PP
* Akihiro Fujii, Akira Nishida, and Yoshio Oyanagi (2005). "Evaluation
of Parallel Aggregate Creation Orders : Smoothed Aggregation Algebraic
Multigrid Method". High Performance Computational Science and
Engineering. Springer. pp. 99-122. doi:10.1007/0-387-24049-7_6. ISBN
1-4419-3684-X.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR lsolve (1),
.BR esolve (1),
.BR hpcg_kernel (1),
.BR hpcg_spmvtest (1),
.BR spmvtest1 (1),
.BR spmvtest2 (1),
.BR spmvtest2b (1),
.BR spmvtest3 (1),
.BR spmvtest3b (1),
.BR spmvtest4 (1),
.BR spmvtest5 (1)
.PP
http://www.ssisc.org/lis/
.br
http://math.nist.gov/MatrixMarket/

